# Applying Agile Principals to a Project

Our q3 project centered around a large group of 9.  As such an integral part of completing this project revolved around adequate planning and communication.  In creating our planning process, and in the planning itself, we made a concerted effort to implement as many Agile principals as possible with the belief that it would maximize our productivity and workflow and minimize painpoints during development.

During the planning of our app we focused very hard on creating a half not half-assed environment.  We accomplished this by very aggressively distinguishing between our MVP and 'stretch' features we'd like to add on, time permitting, or develop after our weeklong period.  We did this by first paring our user stories down to the bare minimum to create our MVP and then fleshing those individual stories out to better measure progress.  Additionally, we adopted the concept of 'thin vertical slices' as a core value within the group, narrowing the scope of each user story as much as possible and agreeing that no user story was ready to be accepted until it was 100% complete (including styling).

We then opted to adopt pair-programming for 100% of user stories.  Pairs were assigned daily while making sure that at least 1 member of each pair was familiar with the environment and problems they would be tackling during the day.  Luke, as our scrum master, acted as a floating trouble-shooter and extra set of eyes, insuring that no programming pair got stuck for more than 30 minutes at a time working on a given painpoint.  Finally, user stories were assigned to a group after their previous story had been accepted.  In this way, we were able to be as flexible as possible in trouble shooting and weren't stuck adhering to a rigid pipeline of user-stories that wasn't easily adaptable to changes in the progress or scope of the project.

We also devoted time at the end of each day to performing small retrospectives/ status updates, making sure to inform the entire team of obstacles or painpoints we had encountered during the day.  This allowed us to constantly evolve our approach as new issues cropped up.  Doing a daily start, stop and continue encouraged everyone to maximize their time.  It is also worth noting that beginning the week with a retrospective on our previous group project allowed us to come to a consensus about how we wanted to approach the project from day one.  
