We’ve all been to school.  We’ve all struggled to cram huge chunks of new information into our brains in preparation for a test or exam, and we’ve all tried to do so under some pretty harsh time constraints (I'm not saying they’re usually self-inflicted but…).  I think most of us can agree that learning, whether rote memorization or absorbing complex abstract concepts, doesn’t happen all in one go.
So what’s the most efficient way to go about committing new information to memory?
There’s a pretty compelling body of evidence indicating that something called spaced-repetition is an extremely time efficient way of internalizing new knowledge.  
At its core, spaced-repetition is all about revisiting information right before we’re about to forget it.  Lets say you are trying to memorize the definition of ZPD.  Traditionally, students devote a particular amount of time to learning each day, focusing on one subject at a time.  Space-repetition allows us to spend our study time only on things that we’re struggling to learn.  If you easily recall the definition of ZPD you don’t study it again in an hour; you study it again when you’re struggling to remember it.  If done properly, spaced-repetition allows us to efficiently commit information to memory by continuously reinforcing that information when we’re on the cusp of forgetting it— and once its been firmly entrenched in our brain we hardly need to revisit it at all.

As near as I can tell we use this learning method in class almost daily.  Spaced repetition is incorporated into our daily and weekly lesson plans in the form of areas of focus.  Rather than devoting a solid week to, say, flex box and CSS, we work on these concepts for a couple of days and then move on to something else.  After a few days of JavaScript work we suddenly find ourselves faced with a warmup problem relying solely on our CSS skills.  This spacing is helpful to all students regardless of how well we’ve learned CSS skills; if this warm up is easy to complete, students probably jump back into JavaScript or other concepts.  On the other hand, students that struggle to recall the information required to complete the warmup will be reminded that they need to spend more time on CSS and use free time to continue studying.
