When our team got together in order to begin working on what would become Sleuth -- a highly accurate and sophisticated web-app and extension for testing and tracking the quality of your internet connection -- one of the most important decisions we needed to make was what framework we wanted to work in.  After some debate and discussion we eventually settled on using React.  I wanted to take a few minutes to clarify to myself (and anyone who may be interested, perhaps for mastery tracking purposes) why we decided to go in that direction.  

At the end of the day there are really two reasons we wanted to work in React.  The first, and most important reason, is that React is extremely fast and light weight.  This is important to us as developers because its so important to our potential end-users.  Speed is everything and so many users are unwilling to wait around for pages to load content.  React's virtual DOM allows us as developers to deliver content to our users faster than any other framework we're aware of and does so in a light-weight package that further avoids delays.  

Secondly, React is among the most popular Javascript frameworks available today.  This is relevant for a couple of reasons.  Primarily, popularity means accessibility -- more developers are able to contribute to the project or help and we have more resources available to us to help troubleshoot problems.  Secondly, from a professional development standpoint, its beneficial to us to be familiar with such a widely used framework.  So its a smart idea for our resumes too.  
